- [Instructor] Now, we've talked a little bit
about this topic already,
but I want to spend a bit more time talking about this
because many security risks can be avoided
by simple input validation.
We're talking about a couple of different strategies.
Now, there are a few general thoughts about validation
that can be applied to Java applications.
First and foremost, your validation logic in Java
should be reusable if at all possible.
Embedded input validation in each method
is messy, repetitive, and quite frankly, error prone,
so consolidating it and reusing it
is definitely your best bet.
In a similar vein, the validation logic
should be clean and easy to read.
Obviously, this is subjective,
but validation must be understandable by your entire team.
Part of the desire with validation logic,
especially from a reusability perspective,
is to have consistent error messages.
Utilizing validation exceptions,
and doing so in a consistent manner
will make error handling and debugging significantly easier.
Because concurrency is a feature of Java,
you need to ensure that you write your validation logic
to be thread safe.
This means taking care with static variables,
using constructs that are known to be thread safe,
and if possible, keeping no state
in your validation logic itself.
And finally, if at all possible,
make your input validation implicit, as opposed to explicit.
The reason is pretty simple,
you never have to worry about people using your robust logic
that you just built if it's implicitly called,
whereas if they have to explicitly do so,
there's a chance that they'll forget.
Java bean validation is one of the easiest ways
to get started with validation logic.
Bean validation is defined in JSR 303, 349,
and then finally in 380,
meaning that it is standards based.
There is a huge advantage to using standards,
especially those with high quality implementations,
like bean validation.
Now with bean validation,
you get default validators like bin, max, no, not no,
and pattern based validators.
These give you a significant number of edge cases
to validate against.
In addition, the spec and subsequent implementations
provide a way to build customized validators
specific to your domain.
Now, personally, I'm a big fan of annotations in Java
and bean validation uses annotations.
This provides you an easy,
nearly implicit way of calling your validation logic
throughout your code.
And finally, it usually lives
on your domain objects themselves.
This means that the validation is close to the code
it is being applied to.
It can also be applied to your APIs themselves,
giving you even more flexibility of contract validation.
Now, if you don't want to use bean validation,
you can definitely roll your own validation logic
based on usually positive and negative checking.
Now this has other names,
but this is what I prefer to call this type of checking.
You should always prefer positive checking when possible.
Positive checking provides input validation
on what is acceptable for the contract.
This provides you a clean path to check against
and allows you to control the input better.
Negative checking is inflexible at best.
It can offer many cases of false testing or false positives.
Consider filtering on an apostrophe character,
What happens when a name comes in
with a valid apostrophe character in it?
In addition, many times bad actors
can circumvent these filters because they are so brittle.
Now both of these cases usually rely on RegEx
and that is off-putting to some developers,
so keep that in mind.
But in the end, whether you roll your own
or use one of the standards based strategies,
validation is an important feature
to maintain in your toolkit.